.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2004, Stefan Walter
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions 
.\" are met:
.\" 
.\"     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above 
.\"       copyright notice, this list of conditions and the 
.\"       following disclaimer.
.\"     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the 
.\"       above copyright notice, this list of conditions and 
.\"       the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or 
.\"       other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"     * The names of contributors to this software may not be 
.\"       used to endorse or promote products derived from this 
.\"       software without specific prior written permission.
.\" 
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS 
.\" "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT 
.\" LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS 
.\" FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
.\" COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, 
.\" INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, 
.\" BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS 
.\" OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED 
.\" AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, 
.\" OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF 
.\" THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH 
.\" DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\"
.\" CONTRIBUTORS
.\"  Stef Walter <stef@memberwebs.com>
.\"
.Dd April, 2004
.Dt scrounge-ntfs 8
.Os scrounge-ntfs 
.Sh NAME
.Nm scrounge-ntfs
.Nd helps retrieve data from corrupted NTFS partitions
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl l
.Ar disk
.Nm 
.Fl s
.Ar disk
.Nm 
.Op Fl m Ar mftoffset
.Op Fl c Ar clustersize
.Op Fl o Ar outdir 
.Ar disk
.Ar start
.Ar end
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm 
is a utility that can rescue data from corrupted NTFS partitions. It 
writes the files retrieved to another working file system. Certain 
information about the partition needs to be known in advance. 
.Pp
The 
.Fl l 
mode is meant to be run in advance of the data corruption, with the 
output stored away in a file. This allows 
.Nm
to recover data reliably. See the 'NOTES' section below for recover
info when this isn't the case.
.Sh OPTIONS
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Fl
.It Fl c
The cluster size (in sectors). When not specified a default of 8
is used.
.It Fl l
List partition information for a drive. This will only work when
the partition table for the given drive is intact.
.It Fl m
When recovering data this specifies the location of the MFT from 
the beginning of the partition (in sectors). If not specified then
no directory information can be used, that is, all rescued files 
will be written to the same directory.
.It Fl o
Directory to put rescued files in. If not specified then files will
be placed in the current directory.
.It Fl s
Search disk for partition information. (Not implemented yet).
.It disk
The raw device used to access the disk which contains the NTFS 
partition to rescue files from. eg: '/dev/hdc' 
.It start
The beginning of the NTFS partition (in sectors).
.It end
The end of the NTFS partition (in sectors)
.El
.Sh NOTES
If you plan on using this program sucessfully you should prepare
in advance by storing a copy of the partition information. Use the 
.Fl l
option to do this. Eventually searching for disk partition information 
will be implemented, which will solve this problem.
.Pp
When only one partition exists on a disk or you want to rescue the 
first partition there are ways to guess at the sector sizes and MFT
location. See the scrounge-ntfs web page for more info:
.Pp
http://thewalter.net/stef/software/scrounge/
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Stef Walter Aq stef@memberwebs.com
